====== Understanding the Network-Level Behavior of Spammers ======


A 17-month trace from April 2004 to December 2005 of over 10 million spam messages collected at an Internet sinkhole is analyzed to determine the network-level behavior of spammers.  In addition to the emails collected at the sinkhole, 700,000 legitimate emails from a provider's server hosted at a different domain and sent on June 13, 2006 are inspected.  A 1.5 day trace of hosts infected with the "Bobax" worm is captured starting on April 28, 2005 by reconfiguring the DNS resolving the botnet control domain to point to a honeypot.  The IPs of these hosts are compared with the IPs of the senders of spam sent to the sinkhole to attempt to determine the spamming behavior of botnets.

The paper indicates that the majority of recieved spam arrives from a few concentrated portions of IP address space, but that most legitimate email also comes from that same space.  Though a small number of IP addresses sent more than 10,000 emails to the sinkhole, 85% of IP addresses sent less than 10 emails.  Thus the paper believes that IP addresses themselves cannot be utilized to help identify spam but that the address space can.

The paper states that by observing several blacklists, about 80% of spam can be blocked, but that a new technique called "BGP spectrum agility" has a much higher immunity from this filtering technique.

About 25% of spam from IPs also found in the botnet trace were received from hosts only appearing once.  Also, 99% of these bots that sent spam sent fewer than 100 total spam messages to the domain.

The email server at the sinkhole was configured to accept all incoming email, whereas this may not have been the case for the provider of the legitimate emails.  I wonder if this may impact the behavior of the spammer.  For instance, if emails to all user combinations is accepted than a spammer employing a dictionary technique has no assurance that the email address points to a legitimate user, and might alter the number and frequency of emails sent to the users at that domain accordingly.

{{p396-ramachandran-sigcomm06.pdf|Read the Paper}}